: "The Gates of Morning" CHAPTER I THE CANOE BUILDER DICK standing on a ledge of coral cast his eyes to the South. Behind him the breakers of the outer sea thundered and the spindrift scattered on the wind. before him stretched an ocean calm as a lake, infinite, blue, and flown about by the fishing gulls—the lagoon of Karolin.
phrasephrase: ere only yesterday. ere was his people. He was the canoes drawn up on the sand and his empty houses where the war canoes had once rested on their rollers. ere was his people. women, children, youths, all the tribe to be seen busy along the beach in the blazing sun, fishing with nets, playing their games or working on the paraka patches.
phrase: northern sea. away there, beyond the sea line, invisible, lay Palm Tree, an island beautiful as a dream, yet swarming with devils. little Tari the son of Le Taioi the net maker, sitting on the coral close by, looked up at him.
Tari, é kamina tai, said little Tari, “who are you?” Dick asked.
phrase Dick Lestrange? “Tari, I come of people beyond the world you know. My name is Dick Lestrange, and when I was smaller than you, Tari, I was left alone with an old sailor man on that island you call Marua (Palm Tree), which lies beyond sight fifty miles to the north. Tari, I come of people beyond the world you know. My name is Dick Lestrange, and when I was smaller than you, Tari, I was left
phrase:, we loved one another and might have lived for ever at Marua had not a great ship come there filled with bad men, men from the eastern islands of Melanesia. they came to cut the trees. Then they rose and killed the white men with them and burned the ship and in our boat we were alone.
phrase: escaped from them, taking with us everything we loved, even the little ships, and steering for Karolin, we came, led by the lagoon light in the sky." but he could not tell Tari this, or at least all of it, for the name of Dick had passed from his memory.
Kearney would have been quite forgotten but for the little ships he had made as playthings for the boy—who was now man. he asked the child: “I do not know,” sai sai sai sai, who was now a man, who was now a man.
the question of the child. id the child. “I ask as I breathe but no big folk—madyana—will ever answer the questions of Tari— Ai, the fish!” Dick turned his gaze again to the north.
phrase: n the old dinghy that Kearney had taught him to handle as a boy. n the old dinghy that Kearney had taught him to handle as a boy. n the old dinghy that he had taught him to handle as a boy. n the old dinghy that Kearney had taught him to handle as a boy.
phrase: ild canoes—surely they would build canoes, and as surely they would see the far mirror blaze of Karolin lagoon in the sky, just as he had seen it, and they would come. Dick was an all but blook, a kanaka, a savage, and yet the white man was there. he could think forward, he could think round a subject and he could imagine.
: en, too old for war, but expert canoe-builders, that was why when gazing at the tribe in full congregation, his eyes had brightened to the fact that nearly a hundred of the youths were ripening to war age, but under all, lighting and animating his mind, raising daring to eagle heights, lay his passion for Katafa, his other self more dear to him than self, threatened, ever so vaguely, yet still threatened?
phrase: did he intend to be the attacker, destroying the danger at its source before it could develop? Who knows? A hand fell upon his shoulder and turning, he found himself face to face with Katafa, a lock of her dark hair escaped from the thread of elastic vine that bound it. Katafa, a lock of her dark hair escaped from the thread of elastic vine that bound it, blew right back on the breeze like an eagle’s feather, and her eyes
: intervals and in certain conditions of weather Palm Tree became visible from Karolin through mirage. a mysterious stain low down in the southern sky, a dull spot in the sea dazzle, deepened by degrees and hardened till as if sketched in by some unseen painter.
,, their minds untutored, knowing nothing of mirage, their eyes fixed on the place from which they had escaped. they saw again the horde of savages on the beach, figures monstrous as the forms in a nightmare, they felt again the wind that filled the sail as the dinghy raced for safety and the open sea, and again they heard the yells of the Melanesians mad with rum stolen from the schoon
phrase: ad brought in, and which they had burnt. And there, there before them lay the scene of the Tragedy, that lovely picture which showed nothing of the demons that still habited it. Then as Dick gazed on this loveliness, which was yet a threat and a warning, his nostrils expanded and his eyes grew dark with hate. They had threatened him—that was nothing, they had threatened Katafa, that was everything—and they still threatened
: t what instinct told him. They would build canoes and seeing the lagoon mirror-light in the sky, they would come. They had no women, those men, and here were women, and instinct half whispered to him that just as he had been drawn to Katafa, so would these men be drawn to the women of Karolin. they would scan the horizon in search of some island whose tribe might be raided of its women and seeing the lagoon light they would come. Ah, 
phrase: r greed or desire or hatred might roam on that azure sea, not only amongst savages, but the wolves of civilization. Dick had learned to dread men and had envisaged the foundation of all history—man’s instinct for war, rapine and destruction.
phrase: egan to fade and pass, suddenly it vanished like a light blown out and as they turned from the sea to the lagoon, Katafa pointed across the lagoon water to a canoe approaching from the southern beach.

--- Review Notes ---
Sentiment: POSITIVE, Confidence: 0.93